# Final Project for CS50web

## About the website

This is my final project for [Harvard CS50 web](https://cs50.harvard.edu/web/2020/) course. It's a website named *“Pack List”* or *“UList”* that was created as a web application for lists (making and sharing).

The idea came about since at the time I was packing and going places for the weekends. Then it evolved to making lists of different media, to keep or share. Depending on the category of the list, the items on the list are added.  
- Regular: Everything is added manually by the user  
- Books: The title given returns the first item from google books API  
- Movies: The title given returns from omdb API  
- Sports: Returns a link to youtube search of highlights  

The idea is to keep track (and mark done), or share with other users the lists created.

## Description

Web application is based on Django framework.  
I used SQLite3 as database.

## Justification

This project is distinct from all previous projects so far. Why?

- More models with complex relation between them.
- Uses ajax functionality, fetch data without reloading the page.
- Request and load from outersource API.
- Selects and saves data from API request.
- Completely Mobile responsive.

#### Files & Directories

- `finalWeb` - root directory.

  - `finalWeb` - Python package for project, with all its subfiles generated on creation.

  - `packList` - Main application directory.

    - `models.py` - Contains three classes User, My_List and Item. User is db for users, My_List is db for Items which is each element in the list.
    - `urls.py` - Contains all url paths for packList, like login, logout, register, creating a new list, adding and removing items, comments and share for the list.
    - `views.py` - Contains all view functions for packList, like login, register, adding, removing and sharing lists or items.
    - `admin.py` - admin file with access to models.
    - `_init_.py` - generated by django.
    - `apps.py` - generated by django.
    - `tests.py` - generated by django.
    - `static` - Holds all static files.
      - `css` 
        - `styles.css` - Contains all css styling for the website.
      - `js`
       - `script.js` Contains all JavaScript files for manipulating the DOM with ajax functionalities.
    - `Templates` - Holds all html files.

  - `manage.py` -  Command-line utility to interact with app.

  - `db.sqlite3` - sql data base.

  - `README.md` - Readme file describing app.

  - `requirements.txt` - Requirments to install for app to run.

## How to use

To run the web application use these commands:

```
$ python manage.py makemigrations packList
$ python manage.py migrate   
$ python manage.py runserver
```

## Requirements

- install python 3
- install django
- install urllib
- install urllib.request
- install requests